---
title: "Centralized sub-critic based hierarchical-structured reinforcement learning for temporal sentence grounding (MMS 2023)"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/paper_2023_02
excerpt: "Yingyuan Zhao, Zhiyi Tan, Bing-Kun Bao & **Zhengzheng Tu**"
# date: 2009-10-01
# venue: "Journal 1"
# slidesurl: "http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf"
# paperurl: "http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf"
# citation: "Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1)."
---

Yingyuan Zhao, Zhiyi Tan, Bing-Kun Bao & **Zhengzheng Tu**

**Abstract:** Temporal sentence grounding is to localize the corresponding video clip of a sentence in video. Existing study based on hierarchical-structured reinforcement learning treats the task as training an agent learn its strategy, decomposed into a master-policy and several sub-policies, to adjust the prediction boundary progressively heading for the target clip. They adopt a decentralized-sub-critic framework, equipping every sub-policy with its own sub-critic network to perceive the current environment for enhancing its training. However, massive sub-critics result in massive network parameters. In addition, each decentralized sub-critic only considers the action of its sub-policy and fails to model the impact of other sub-policies’ actions on the environment, which would mislead sub-policies’ learning. To handle this, we contribute a novel solution composed of a centralized sub-critic based hierarchical-structured reinforcement learning (CSC-HSRL). The key is to train a centralized sub-critic network to evaluate the effects of all sub-policies’ actions. Furthermore, centralized sub-critic helps sub-policies to determine whether their actions are beneficial to localize target clip more precisely and support their training. Also, centralized sub-critic has fewer parameters. Experiments on Charades-STA and ActivityNet dataset show that compared with the decentralized sub-critic based model TSP-PRL, CSC-HSRL has higher accuracy and reduces model parameters in the meantime.

