---
title: "ORSI Salient Object Detection via Multiscale Joint Region and Boundary Model (TGRS 2021)"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/paper_2021_01
excerpt: "**Zhengzheng Tu**, Chao Wang, Chenglong Li, Minghao Fan, Haifeng Zhao, Bin Luo"
# date: 2009-10-01
# venue: "Journal 1"
# slidesurl: "http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf"
# paperurl: "http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf"
# citation: "Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1)."
---

**Zhengzheng Tu**, Chao Wang, Chenglong Li, Minghao Fan, Haifeng Zhao, Bin Luo

**Abstract:** Salient object detection (SOD) in optical remote sense images (ORSIs) is a valuable and challenging task. The factors in ORSI, such as background clutter, lighting shadows, imaging blur, and low resolution, significantly degrade the completeness and accuracy of salient objects. To handle this problem, we propose a novel model to learn robust multiscale region features of salient objects by simultaneously optimizing their boundaries. First, we extract multiscale region features of salient objects through a hierarchical attention module. Second, we generate the boundary features by combining the local cues and the global information generated by pyramid pooling. Finally, we embed the boundary features into region features at multiple scales. In particular, we design a joint learning scheme based on a bidirectional feature transformation to optimize boundary and region features simultaneously for accurate ORSI SOD. To provide a comprehensive evaluation platform, we construct a new dataset called ORSI-4199 for ORSI SOD. It contains 4199 finely annotated image pairs with diverse scenes, in which nine attributes (i.e., challenge types) are annotated to facilitate analyzing the strengths and weaknesses of SOD models from different perspectives. Extensive experiments on the public dataset ORSSD, EORRSD, and the newly created dataset ORSI-4199 show that the proposed approach achieves promising results against state-of-the-art methods. https://github.com/wchao1213/ORSI-SOD .

**DOI:** https://doi.org/10.1109/TGRS.2021.3101359
